docs/blog/posts/chinese-search-support.md, before:

---
date: 2022-05-05
authors: [squidfunk]
title: Chinese search support
description: >
  Insiders adds Chinese language support for the built-in search plugin – a
  feature that has been requested many times
categories:
  - Search
links:
  - blog/posts/search-better-faster-smaller.md
  - plugins/search.md#segmentation
  - insiders/how-to-sponsor.md
---

# Chinese search support – 中文搜索​支持

__Insiders adds experimental Chinese language support for the [built-in search
plugin] – a feature that has been requested for a long time given the large
number of Chinese users.__

After the United States and Germany, the third-largest country of origin of
Material for MkDocs users is China. For a long time, the [built-in search plugin]
didn't allow for proper segmentation of Chinese characters, mainly due to
missing support in [lunr-languages] which is used for search tokenization and
stemming. The latest Insiders release adds long-awaited Chinese language support
for the built-in search plugin, something that has been requested by many users.

<!-- more -->

_Material for MkDocs終於​支持​中文​了！文本​被​正確​分割​並且​更​容易​找到。_
{ style="display: inline" }

_This article explains how to set up Chinese language support for the built-in
search plugin in a few minutes._
{ style="display: inline" }

  [built-in search plugin]: ../../plugins/search.md
  [lunr-languages]: https://github.com/MihaiValentin/lunr-languages

## Configuration

Chinese language support for Material for MkDocs is provided by [jieba], an
excellent Chinese text segmentation library. If [jieba] is installed, the
built-in search plugin automatically detects Chinese characters and runs them
through the segmenter. You can install [jieba] with:

```
pip install jieba
```

The next step is only required if you specified the [`separator`][separator]
configuration in `mkdocs.yml`. Text is segmented with [zero-width whitespace]
characters, so it renders exactly the same in the search modal. Adjust
`mkdocs.yml` so that the [`separator`][separator] includes the `\u200b`
character:

``` yaml
plugins:
  - search:
      separator: '[\s\u200b\-]'
```

That's all that is necessary.

## Usage

If you followed the instructions in the configuration guide, Chinese words will
now be tokenized using [jieba]. Try searching for
[:octicons-search-24: 支持][q=支持] to see how it integrates with the
built-in search plugin.

---

Note that this is an experimental feature, and I, @squidfunk, am not
proficient in Chinese (yet?). If you find a bug or think something can be
improved, please [open an issue].

  [jieba]: https://pypi.org/project/jieba/
  [zero-width whitespace]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zero-width_space
  [separator]: ../../plugins/search.md#config.separator
  [q=支持]: ?q=支持
  [open an issue]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/issues/new/choose

Commit message:

Support fallback from `regex` package to standard `re` module
Support using the standard Python library `re` module if the `regex`
package is not available.  This improves the compatibility of plugins
with environments where `regex` is not or cannot be installed,
in particular when using PyPy.

The `regex` package is heavily relying on implementation details
of CPython and has a significant technical debt, that is preventing
the author from making the code more portable.  At the same time,
the standard library `re` module provides most of the functionality
used by mkdocs-material.

The `regex` package continues being used if it is installed
in the environment, and the change should therefore remain backwards
compatible.  When it is not installed, the `info` and `search` plugins
will use the standard library `re` module, therefore it becomes possible
to use them without having `regex` installed.  However, the Chinese
search support via `jieba` requires `regex`, and therefore will be
disabled if the fallback is used — much like it is currently disabled
if `jieba` is not installed.

I could not find any formal declaration of `regex` or `jieba`
requirements.  However, I did update the documentation to hint
on the necessity of having both `jieba` and `regex` installed for
the Chinese search to work.  I have also updated the old blog post — if
that is undesirable, I can revert it.

Fixes #8031

docs/blog/posts/chinese-search-support.md, after:

---
date: 2022-05-05
authors: [squidfunk]
title: Chinese search support
description: >
  Insiders adds Chinese language support for the built-in search plugin – a
  feature that has been requested many times
categories:
  - Search
links:
  - blog/posts/search-better-faster-smaller.md
  - plugins/search.md#segmentation
  - insiders/how-to-sponsor.md
---

# Chinese search support – 中文搜索​支持

__Insiders adds experimental Chinese language support for the [built-in search
plugin] – a feature that has been requested for a long time given the large
number of Chinese users.__

After the United States and Germany, the third-largest country of origin of
Material for MkDocs users is China. For a long time, the [built-in search plugin]
didn't allow for proper segmentation of Chinese characters, mainly due to
missing support in [lunr-languages] which is used for search tokenization and
stemming. The latest Insiders release adds long-awaited Chinese language support
for the built-in search plugin, something that has been requested by many users.

<!-- more -->

_Material for MkDocs終於​支持​中文​了！文本​被​正確​分割​並且​更​容易​找到。_
{ style="display: inline" }

_This article explains how to set up Chinese language support for the built-in
search plugin in a few minutes._
{ style="display: inline" }

  [built-in search plugin]: ../../plugins/search.md
  [lunr-languages]: https://github.com/MihaiValentin/lunr-languages

## Configuration

Chinese language support for Material for MkDocs is provided by [jieba], an
excellent Chinese text segmentation library. If [jieba] and [regex] packages
are installed, the built-in search plugin automatically detects Chinese
characters and runs them through the segmenter. You can install them with:

```
pip install jieba regex
```

The next step is only required if you specified the [`separator`][separator]
configuration in `mkdocs.yml`. Text is segmented with [zero-width whitespace]
characters, so it renders exactly the same in the search modal. Adjust
`mkdocs.yml` so that the [`separator`][separator] includes the `\u200b`
character:

``` yaml
plugins:
  - search:
      separator: '[\s\u200b\-]'
```

That's all that is necessary.

## Usage

If you followed the instructions in the configuration guide, Chinese words will
now be tokenized using [jieba]. Try searching for
[:octicons-search-24: 支持][q=支持] to see how it integrates with the
built-in search plugin.

---

Note that this is an experimental feature, and I, @squidfunk, am not
proficient in Chinese (yet?). If you find a bug or think something can be
improved, please [open an issue].

  [jieba]: https://pypi.org/project/jieba/
  [regex]: https://pypi.org/project/regex/
  [zero-width whitespace]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zero-width_space
  [separator]: ../../plugins/search.md#config.separator
  [q=支持]: ?q=支持
  [open an issue]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/issues/new/choose
