docs/setup/adding-a-comment-system.md, before:

---
template: overrides/main.html
disqus: mkdocs material
---

# Adding a comment system

Material for MkDocs is natively integrated with [Disqus][1], a comment system
that provides a wide range of features like social integrations, user profiles,
as well as spam and moderation tools. Of course, other comment systems can be 
integrated, too.

  [1]: https://disqus.com/

## Configuration

### Disqus

[:octicons-file-code-24: Source][2] ·
:octicons-milestone-24: Default: _none_

First, ensure you've set [`site_url`][3] in `mkdocs.yml`. Then, to integrate
Material for MkDocs with [Disqus][1], create an account and a site giving you a
[shortname][4], and add it to `mkdocs.yml`:

``` yaml
extra:
  disqus: <shortname>
```

This will insert a comment system on _every page, except the index page_.

  [2]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/blob/master/src/partials/integrations/disqus.html
  [3]: https://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/configuration/#site_url
  [4]: https://help.disqus.com/en/articles/1717111-what-s-a-shortname

### Metadata

The [Metadata][5] extension, which is part of the standard Markdown library,
adds the ability to add [front matter][6] to a document and can be enabled via
`mkdocs.yml`:

``` yaml
markdown_extensions:
  - meta
```

Front matter is written as a series of key-value pairs at the beginning of the
Markdown document, delimited by a blank line which ends the YAML context.

  [5]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/blob/master/src/base.html
  [6]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/

## Customization

### Selective integration

[:octicons-file-code-24: Source][2] ·
:octicons-mortar-board-24: Difficulty: _easy_

If the [Metadata][7] extension is enabled, you can disable or enable Disqus for
specific pages by adding the following to the front matter of a page:

=== "Enable Disqus"

    ``` markdown
    ---
    disqus: <shortname>
    ---
    ```

=== "Disable Disqus"

    ``` markdown
    ---
    disqus: ""
    ---
    ```

  [7]: #metadata

Commit message:

Added note on custom comment system integration

docs/setup/adding-a-comment-system.md, after:

---
template: overrides/main.html
---

# Adding a comment system

Material for MkDocs is natively integrated with [Disqus][1], a comment system
that provides a wide range of features like social integrations, user profiles,
as well as spam and moderation tools. Of course, other comment systems can be 
integrated, too.

  [1]: https://disqus.com/

## Configuration

### Disqus

[:octicons-file-code-24: Source][2] ·
:octicons-milestone-24: Default: _none_

First, ensure you've set [`site_url`][3] in `mkdocs.yml`. Then, to integrate
Material for MkDocs with [Disqus][1], create an account and a site giving you a
[shortname][4], and add it to `mkdocs.yml`:

``` yaml
extra:
  disqus: <shortname>
```

This will insert a comment system on _every page, except the index page_.

  [2]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/blob/master/src/partials/integrations/disqus.html
  [3]: https://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/configuration/#site_url
  [4]: https://help.disqus.com/en/articles/1717111-what-s-a-shortname

### Metadata

The [Metadata][5] extension, which is part of the standard Markdown library,
adds the ability to add [front matter][6] to a document and can be enabled via
`mkdocs.yml`:

``` yaml
markdown_extensions:
  - meta
```

Front matter is written as a series of key-value pairs at the beginning of the
Markdown document, delimited by a blank line which ends the YAML context.

  [5]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/blob/master/src/base.html
  [6]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/

## Customization

### Selective integration

[:octicons-file-code-24: Source][2] ·
:octicons-mortar-board-24: Difficulty: _easy_

If the [Metadata][7] extension is enabled, you can disable or enable Disqus for
specific pages by adding the following to the front matter of a page:

=== "Enable Disqus"

    ``` markdown
    ---
    disqus: <shortname>
    ---
    ```

=== "Disable Disqus"

    ``` markdown
    ---
    disqus: ""
    ---
    ```

  [7]: #metadata

### Other comment systems

[:octicons-file-code-24: Source][8] ·
:octicons-mortar-board-24: Difficulty: _easy_

In order to integrate another JavaScript-based comment system provider, you can
[extend the theme][9] and [override the `disqus` block][10]:

``` html
{% block disqus %}
  <!-- Add custom comment system integration here -->
{% endblock %}
```

  [8]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/blob/master/src/base.html#L340-342
  [9]: ../customization.md#extending-the-theme
  [10]: ../customization.md#overriding-blocks
