docs/creating-your-site.md, before:

# Creating your site

After you've [installed] Material for MkDocs, you can bootstrap your project
documentation using the `mkdocs` executable. Go to the directory where you want
your project to be located and enter:

```
mkdocs new .
```

Alternatively, if you're running Material for MkDocs from within Docker, use:

=== "Unix, Powershell"

    ```
    docker run --rm -it -v ${PWD}:/docs squidfunk/mkdocs-material new .
    ```

=== "Windows (cmd)"

    ```
    docker run --rm -it -v "%cd%":/docs squidfunk/mkdocs-material new .
    ```

This will create the following structure:

``` { .sh .no-copy }
.
├─ docs/
│  └─ index.md
└─ mkdocs.yml
```

  [installed]: getting-started.md

## Configuration

### Minimal configuration

Simply add the following lines to `mkdocs.yml` to enable the theme:

``` yaml
theme:
  name: material
```

  [installation methods]: getting-started.md#installation

???+ tip "Recommended: [configuration validation and auto-complete]"

    In order to minimize friction and maximize productivity, Material for MkDocs
    provides its own [schema.json][^1] for `mkdocs.yml`. If your editor supports
    YAML schema validation, it's definitely recommended to set it up:

    === "Visual Studio Code"

        1.  Install [`vscode-yaml`][vscode-yaml] for YAML language support.
        2.  Add the schema under the `yaml.schemas` key in your user or
            workspace [`settings.json`][settings.json]:

            ``` json
            {
              "yaml.schemas": {
                "https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/schema.json": "mkdocs.yml"
              },
              "yaml.customTags": [ // (1)!
                "!ENV scalar",
                "!ENV sequence",
                "!relative scalar",
                "tag:yaml.org,2002:python/name:material.extensions.emoji.to_svg",
                "tag:yaml.org,2002:python/name:material.extensions.emoji.twemoji",
                "tag:yaml.org,2002:python/name:pymdownx.superfences.fence_code_format"
              ]
            }
            ```

            1.  This setting is necessary if you plan to use [icons and emojis],
                or Visual Studio Code will show errors on certain lines.

    === "Other"

        1.  Ensure your editor of choice has support for YAML schema validation.
        2.  Add the following lines at the top of `mkdocs.yml`:

            ``` yaml
            # yaml-language-server: $schema=https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/schema.json
            ```

  [^1]:
    If you're a MkDocs plugin or Markdown extension author and your project
    works with Material for MkDocs, you're very much invited to contribute a
    schema for your [extension] or [plugin] as part of a pull request on GitHub.
    If you already have a schema defined, or wish to self-host your schema to
    reduce duplication, you can add it via [$ref].

  [configuration validation and auto-complete]: https://twitter.com/squidfunk/status/1487746003692400642
  [schema.json]: schema.json
  [vscode-yaml]: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-yaml
  [settings.json]: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings
  [extension]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/tree/master/docs/schema/extensions
  [plugin]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/tree/master/docs/schema/plugins
  [$ref]: https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/structuring.html#ref
  [icons and emojis]: reference/icons-emojis.md

### Advanced configuration

Material for MkDocs comes with many configuration options. The setup section
explains in great detail how to configure and customize colors, fonts, icons
and much more:

<div class="mdx-columns" markdown>

- [Changing the colors]
- [Changing the fonts]
- [Changing the language]
- [Changing the logo and icons]
- [Ensuring data privacy]
- [Setting up navigation]
- [Setting up site search]
- [Setting up site analytics]
- [Setting up social cards]
- [Setting up a blog]
- [Setting up tags]
- [Setting up versioning]
- [Setting up the header]
- [Setting up the footer]
- [Adding a git repository]
- [Adding a comment system]
- [Building an optimized site]
- [Building for offline usage]

</div>

Furthermore, see the list of supported [Markdown extensions] that are natively
integrated with Material for MkDocs, delivering an unprecedented low-effort
technical writing experience.

  [Changing the colors]: setup/changing-the-colors.md
  [Changing the fonts]: setup/changing-the-fonts.md
  [Changing the language]: setup/changing-the-language.md
  [Changing the logo and icons]: setup/changing-the-logo-and-icons.md
  [Ensuring data privacy]: setup/ensuring-data-privacy.md
  [Setting up navigation]: setup/setting-up-navigation.md
  [Setting up site search]: setup/setting-up-site-search.md
  [Setting up site analytics]: setup/setting-up-site-analytics.md
  [Setting up social cards]: setup/setting-up-social-cards.md
  [Setting up a blog]: setup/setting-up-a-blog.md
  [Setting up tags]: setup/setting-up-tags.md
  [Setting up versioning]: setup/setting-up-versioning.md
  [Setting up the header]: setup/setting-up-the-header.md
  [Setting up the footer]: setup/setting-up-the-footer.md
  [Adding a git repository]: setup/adding-a-git-repository.md
  [Adding a comment system]: setup/adding-a-comment-system.md
  [Building for offline usage]: setup/building-for-offline-usage.md
  [Building an optimized site]: setup/building-an-optimized-site.md
  [Markdown extensions]: setup/extensions/index.md

## Previewing as you write

MkDocs includes a live preview server, so you can preview your changes as you
write your documentation. The server will automatically rebuild the site upon
saving. Start it with:

``` sh
mkdocs serve # (1)!
```

1.  If you have a large documentation project, it might take minutes until
    MkDocs has rebuilt all pages for you to preview. If you're only interested
    in the current page, the [`--dirtyreload`][--dirtyreload] flag will make
    rebuilds much faster:

    ```
    mkdocs serve --dirtyreload
    ```

If you're running Material for MkDocs from within Docker, use:

=== "Unix, Powershell"

    ```
    docker run --rm -it -p 8000:8000 -v ${PWD}:/docs squidfunk/mkdocs-material
    ```

=== "Windows"

    ```
    docker run --rm -it -p 8000:8000 -v "%cd%":/docs squidfunk/mkdocs-material
    ```

Point your browser to [localhost:8000][live preview] and you should see:

[![Creating your site]][Creating your site]

  [--dirtyreload]: https://www.mkdocs.org/about/release-notes/#support-for-dirty-builds-990
  [live preview]: http://localhost:8000
  [Creating your site]: assets/screenshots/creating-your-site.png

## Building your site

When you're finished editing, you can build a static site from your Markdown
files with:

```
mkdocs build
```

If you're running Material for MkDocs from within Docker, use:

=== "Unix, Powershell"

    ```
    docker run --rm -it -v ${PWD}:/docs squidfunk/mkdocs-material build
    ```

=== "Windows"

    ```
    docker run --rm -it -v "%cd%":/docs squidfunk/mkdocs-material build
    ```

The contents of this directory make up your project documentation. There's no
need for operating a database or server, as it is completely self-contained.
The site can be hosted on [GitHub Pages], [GitLab Pages], a CDN of your choice
or your private web space.

  [GitHub Pages]: publishing-your-site.md#github-pages
  [GitLab pages]: publishing-your-site.md#gitlab-pages

If you intend to distribute your documentation as a set of files to be
read from a local filesystem rather than a web server (such as in a
`.zip` file), please read the notes about [building for offline
usage].

  [building for offline usage]: setup/building-for-offline-usage.md

Commit message:

Documentation (#7103)
* added note on importance of site_url

this was in response to
https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/issues/4678#issuecomment-1327681673

* re-wording to say why site_url is always needed

docs/creating-your-site.md, after:

# Creating your site

After you've [installed] Material for MkDocs, you can bootstrap your project
documentation using the `mkdocs` executable. Go to the directory where you want
your project to be located and enter:

```
mkdocs new .
```

Alternatively, if you're running Material for MkDocs from within Docker, use:

=== "Unix, Powershell"

    ```
    docker run --rm -it -v ${PWD}:/docs squidfunk/mkdocs-material new .
    ```

=== "Windows (cmd)"

    ```
    docker run --rm -it -v "%cd%":/docs squidfunk/mkdocs-material new .
    ```

This will create the following structure:

``` { .sh .no-copy }
.
├─ docs/
│  └─ index.md
└─ mkdocs.yml
```

  [installed]: getting-started.md

## Configuration

### Minimal configuration

Simply set the `site_name` and add the following lines to `mkdocs.yml` to enable the theme:

``` yaml hl_lines="2-5"
site_name: My site
site_url: https://mydomain.org/mysite
theme:
  name: material
```

The `site_url` setting is important for a number of reasons.
By default, MkDocs will assume that your site is hosted at the root of
your domain. This is not the case, for example, when [publishing to GitHub
pages] - unless you use a custom domain. Another reason is that some of the
plugins require the `site_url` to be set, so you should always do this.

  [publishing to GitHub pages]: publishing-your-site.md#github-pages
  [installation methods]: getting-started.md#installation

???+ tip "Recommended: [configuration validation and auto-complete]"

    In order to minimize friction and maximize productivity, Material for MkDocs
    provides its own [schema.json][^1] for `mkdocs.yml`. If your editor supports
    YAML schema validation, it's definitely recommended to set it up:

    === "Visual Studio Code"

        1.  Install [`vscode-yaml`][vscode-yaml] for YAML language support.
        2.  Add the schema under the `yaml.schemas` key in your user or
            workspace [`settings.json`][settings.json]:

            ``` json
            {
              "yaml.schemas": {
                "https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/schema.json": "mkdocs.yml"
              },
              "yaml.customTags": [ // (1)!
                "!ENV scalar",
                "!ENV sequence",
                "!relative scalar",
                "tag:yaml.org,2002:python/name:material.extensions.emoji.to_svg",
                "tag:yaml.org,2002:python/name:material.extensions.emoji.twemoji",
                "tag:yaml.org,2002:python/name:pymdownx.superfences.fence_code_format"
              ]
            }
            ```

            1.  This setting is necessary if you plan to use [icons and emojis],
                or Visual Studio Code will show errors on certain lines.

    === "Other"

        1.  Ensure your editor of choice has support for YAML schema validation.
        2.  Add the following lines at the top of `mkdocs.yml`:

            ``` yaml
            # yaml-language-server: $schema=https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/schema.json
            ```

  [^1]:
    If you're a MkDocs plugin or Markdown extension author and your project
    works with Material for MkDocs, you're very much invited to contribute a
    schema for your [extension] or [plugin] as part of a pull request on GitHub.
    If you already have a schema defined, or wish to self-host your schema to
    reduce duplication, you can add it via [$ref].

  [configuration validation and auto-complete]: https://twitter.com/squidfunk/status/1487746003692400642
  [schema.json]: schema.json
  [vscode-yaml]: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-yaml
  [settings.json]: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings
  [extension]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/tree/master/docs/schema/extensions
  [plugin]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/tree/master/docs/schema/plugins
  [$ref]: https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/structuring.html#ref
  [icons and emojis]: reference/icons-emojis.md

### Advanced configuration

Material for MkDocs comes with many configuration options. The setup section
explains in great detail how to configure and customize colors, fonts, icons
and much more:

<div class="mdx-columns" markdown>

- [Changing the colors]
- [Changing the fonts]
- [Changing the language]
- [Changing the logo and icons]
- [Ensuring data privacy]
- [Setting up navigation]
- [Setting up site search]
- [Setting up site analytics]
- [Setting up social cards]
- [Setting up a blog]
- [Setting up tags]
- [Setting up versioning]
- [Setting up the header]
- [Setting up the footer]
- [Adding a git repository]
- [Adding a comment system]
- [Building an optimized site]
- [Building for offline usage]

</div>

Furthermore, see the list of supported [Markdown extensions] that are natively
integrated with Material for MkDocs, delivering an unprecedented low-effort
technical writing experience.

  [Changing the colors]: setup/changing-the-colors.md
  [Changing the fonts]: setup/changing-the-fonts.md
  [Changing the language]: setup/changing-the-language.md
  [Changing the logo and icons]: setup/changing-the-logo-and-icons.md
  [Ensuring data privacy]: setup/ensuring-data-privacy.md
  [Setting up navigation]: setup/setting-up-navigation.md
  [Setting up site search]: setup/setting-up-site-search.md
  [Setting up site analytics]: setup/setting-up-site-analytics.md
  [Setting up social cards]: setup/setting-up-social-cards.md
  [Setting up a blog]: setup/setting-up-a-blog.md
  [Setting up tags]: setup/setting-up-tags.md
  [Setting up versioning]: setup/setting-up-versioning.md
  [Setting up the header]: setup/setting-up-the-header.md
  [Setting up the footer]: setup/setting-up-the-footer.md
  [Adding a git repository]: setup/adding-a-git-repository.md
  [Adding a comment system]: setup/adding-a-comment-system.md
  [Building for offline usage]: setup/building-for-offline-usage.md
  [Building an optimized site]: setup/building-an-optimized-site.md
  [Markdown extensions]: setup/extensions/index.md

## Previewing as you write

MkDocs includes a live preview server, so you can preview your changes as you
write your documentation. The server will automatically rebuild the site upon
saving. Start it with:

``` sh
mkdocs serve # (1)!
```

1.  If you have a large documentation project, it might take minutes until
    MkDocs has rebuilt all pages for you to preview. If you're only interested
    in the current page, the [`--dirtyreload`][--dirtyreload] flag will make
    rebuilds much faster:

    ```
    mkdocs serve --dirtyreload
    ```

If you're running Material for MkDocs from within Docker, use:

=== "Unix, Powershell"

    ```
    docker run --rm -it -p 8000:8000 -v ${PWD}:/docs squidfunk/mkdocs-material
    ```

=== "Windows"

    ```
    docker run --rm -it -p 8000:8000 -v "%cd%":/docs squidfunk/mkdocs-material
    ```

Point your browser to [localhost:8000][live preview] and you should see:

[![Creating your site]][Creating your site]

  [--dirtyreload]: https://www.mkdocs.org/about/release-notes/#support-for-dirty-builds-990
  [live preview]: http://localhost:8000
  [Creating your site]: assets/screenshots/creating-your-site.png

## Building your site

When you're finished editing, you can build a static site from your Markdown
files with:

```
mkdocs build
```

If you're running Material for MkDocs from within Docker, use:

=== "Unix, Powershell"

    ```
    docker run --rm -it -v ${PWD}:/docs squidfunk/mkdocs-material build
    ```

=== "Windows"

    ```
    docker run --rm -it -v "%cd%":/docs squidfunk/mkdocs-material build
    ```

The contents of this directory make up your project documentation. There's no
need for operating a database or server, as it is completely self-contained.
The site can be hosted on [GitHub Pages], [GitLab Pages], a CDN of your choice
or your private web space.

  [GitHub Pages]: publishing-your-site.md#github-pages
  [GitLab pages]: publishing-your-site.md#gitlab-pages

If you intend to distribute your documentation as a set of files to be
read from a local filesystem rather than a web server (such as in a
`.zip` file), please read the notes about [building for offline
usage].

  [building for offline usage]: setup/building-for-offline-usage.md
