docs/deprecations.md, before:

---
template: overrides/main.html
---

# Deprecations

This page includes a list of deprecations, indicating which features of Material
for MkDocs were replaced with newer, more flexible alternatives, and thus should
not be used anymore.

## Front matter

### Redirect

:octicons-archive-24: Deprecated: 5.5.0 ·
:octicons-trash-24: Removal: 6.x

The `redirect` key, which could be added via [Metadata][1], allowed to
specify a redirect from within a document to a new address, which is a good
idea when moving content around:

``` markdown
---
redirect: /path/to/new/file
---
```

The [redirects][2] plugin provides the ability to define redirect mappings via
`mkdocs.yml`, which is considered to be a much better solution to achieve the
same result. It can be installed with `pip`:

```
pip install mkdocs-redirects
```

Redirect mappings can then be added to `mkdocs.yml`:

``` yaml
plugins:
  - redirects:
      redirect_maps:
        path/to/old/file.md: path/to/new/file.md
```

  [1]: reference/meta-tags.md#metadata
  [2]: https://github.com/datarobot/mkdocs-redirects

### Source link

:octicons-archive-24: Deprecated: 5.5.0 ·
:octicons-trash-24: Removal: 6.x

The `source` and `path` keys, which could be added via [Metadata][1], showed
a source icon at the top right corner of a document, linking a document to a
single source file:

``` markdown
---
path: tree/master/docs
source: deprecations.md
---
```

Only a single source file could be linked, which is useless if a document refers
to multiple files (or multiple sections within a single file). A more flexible
approach is to use the new [icon integration][3]:

``` markdown
[:octicons-file-code-24: Source](https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/blob/master/docs/deprecations.md)
```

This will render as [:octicons-file-code-24: Source][4], which can be included
at arbitrary positions in any document.

  [3]: setup/changing-the-logo-and-icons.md#icons
  [4]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/blob/master/docs/deprecations.md

### Hero

:octicons-archive-24: Deprecated: 5.5.0 ·
:octicons-trash-24: Removal: 6.x

The `hero` key, which could be added via [Metadata][1], allowed to render a
simple, text-only and page-local teaser text as part of a document. It could
be set from front matter with:

``` markdown
---
hero: Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet
---
```

The recommended way is to [override the `hero` block][5] via [theme
extension][6] for a specific page, which has the nice side effect that hero
templates can be shared among multiple pages:

=== "Markdown"

    ``` markdown
    ---
    template: overrides/hero.html
    ---
    ```

=== "Template"

    ``` html
    {% block hero %}
      <!-- Add custom hero here -->
    {% endblock %}
    ```

  [5]: customization.md#overriding-blocks
  [6]: customization.md#extending-the-theme

Commit message:

Added deprecation notice on bundled plugins

docs/deprecations.md, after:

---
template: overrides/main.html
---

# Deprecations

This page includes a list of deprecations, indicating which features of Material
for MkDocs were replaced with newer, more flexible alternatives, and thus should
not be used anymore.

## Front matter

### Redirect

:octicons-archive-24: Deprecated: 5.5 ·
:octicons-trash-24: Removal: 6.x

The `redirect` key, which could be added via [Metadata][1], allowed to
specify a redirect from within a document to a new address, which is a good
idea when moving content around:

``` markdown
---
redirect: /path/to/new/file
---
```

The [redirects][2] plugin provides the ability to define redirect mappings via
`mkdocs.yml`, which is considered to be a much better solution to achieve the
same result. It can be installed with `pip`:

```
pip install mkdocs-redirects
```

Redirect mappings can then be added to `mkdocs.yml`:

``` yaml
plugins:
  - redirects:
      redirect_maps:
        path/to/old/file.md: path/to/new/file.md
```

  [1]: reference/meta-tags.md#metadata
  [2]: https://github.com/datarobot/mkdocs-redirects

### Source link

:octicons-archive-24: Deprecated: 5.5 ·
:octicons-trash-24: Removal: 6.x

The `source` and `path` keys, which could be added via [Metadata][1], showed
a source icon at the top right corner of a document, linking a document to a
single source file:

``` markdown
---
path: tree/master/docs
source: deprecations.md
---
```

Only a single source file could be linked, which is useless if a document refers
to multiple files (or multiple sections within a single file). A more flexible
approach is to use the new [icon integration][3]:

``` markdown
[:octicons-file-code-24: Source](https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/blob/master/docs/deprecations.md)
```

This will render as [:octicons-file-code-24: Source][4], which can be included
at arbitrary positions in any document.

  [3]: setup/changing-the-logo-and-icons.md#icons
  [4]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/blob/master/docs/deprecations.md

### Hero

:octicons-archive-24: Deprecated: 5.5 ·
:octicons-trash-24: Removal: 6.x

The `hero` key, which could be added via [Metadata][1], allowed to render a
simple, text-only and page-local teaser text as part of a document. It could
be set from front matter with:

``` markdown
---
hero: Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet
---
```

The recommended way is to [override the `hero` block][5] via [theme
extension][6] for a specific page, which has the nice side effect that hero
templates can be shared among multiple pages:

=== "Markdown"

    ``` markdown
    ---
    template: overrides/hero.html
    ---
    ```

=== "Template"

    ``` html
    {% block hero %}
      <!-- Add custom hero here -->
    {% endblock %}
    ```

  [5]: customization.md#overriding-blocks
  [6]: customization.md#extending-the-theme

## Docker image

### Bundled plugins

:octicons-archive-24: Deprecated: 5.5 ·
:octicons-trash-24: Removal: 6.x

Over the last years, the Docker image has continually increased in size. For CI
it's important that download times are as short as possible, which is why the
following plugins will be removed:

- [mkdocs-awesome-pages-plugin][7]
- [mkdocs-git-revision-date-localized-plugin][8]

Note that it's trivial to install plugins inside the Docker image before
building your documentation. See the [installation guide][9] for a step-by-step
guide.

  [7]: https://github.com/lukasgeiter/mkdocs-awesome-pages-plugin
  [8]: https://github.com/timvink/mkdocs-git-revision-date-localized-plugin
  [9]: getting-started.md#with-docker
