docs/getting-started.md, before:

# Getting started

Material for MkDocs is a powerful documentation framework on top of [MkDocs],
a static site generator for project documentation.[^1] If you're familiar with
Python, you can install Material for MkDocs with [`pip`][pip], the Python
package manager. If not, we recommend using [`docker`][docker].

  [^1]:
    In 2016, Material for MkDocs started out as a simple theme for MkDocs, but
    over the course of several years, it's now much more than that – with the
    many built-in plugins, settings, and countless customization abilities,
    Material for MkDocs is now one of the simplest and most powerful frameworks
    for creating documentation for your project.

  [MkDocs]: https://www.mkdocs.org
  [pip]: #with-pip
  [docker]: #with-docker

## Installation

### with pip <small>recommended</small> { #with-pip data-toc-label="with pip" }

Material for MkDocs is published as a [Python package] and can be installed with
`pip`, ideally by using a [virtual environment]. Open up a terminal and install
Material for MkDocs with:

=== "Latest"

    ``` sh
    pip install mkdocs-material
    ```

=== "9.x"

    ``` sh
    pip install mkdocs-material=="9.*" # (1)!
    ```

    1.  Material for MkDocs uses [semantic versioning][^2], which is why it's a
        good idea to limit upgrades to the current major version.

        This will make sure that you don't accidentally [upgrade to the next
        major version], which may include breaking changes that silently corrupt
        your site. Additionally, you can use `pip freeze` to create a lockfile,
        so builds are reproducible at all times:

        ```
        pip freeze > requirements.txt
        ```

        Now, the lockfile can be used for installation:

        ```
        pip install -r requirements.txt
        ```

  [^2]:
    Note that improvements of existing features are sometimes released as
    patch releases, like for example improved rendering of content tabs, as
    they're not considered to be new features.

This will automatically install compatible versions of all dependencies:
[MkDocs], [Markdown], [Pygments] and [Python Markdown Extensions]. Material for
MkDocs always strives to support the latest versions, so there's no need to
install those packages separately.

---

:fontawesome-brands-youtube:{ style="color: #EE0F0F" }
__[How to set up Material for MkDocs]__ by @james-willett – :octicons-clock-24:
27m – Learn how to create and host a documentation site using Material for
MkDocs on GitHub Pages in a step-by-step guide.

  [How to set up Material for MkDocs]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xlABhbnNrfI

---

!!! tip

    If you don't have prior experience with Python, we recommend reading
    [Using Python's pip to Manage Your Projects' Dependencies], which is a
    really good introduction on the mechanics of Python package management and
    helps you troubleshoot if you run into errors.

  [Python package]: https://pypi.org/project/mkdocs-material/
  [virtual environment]: https://realpython.com/what-is-pip/#using-pip-in-a-python-virtual-environment
  [semantic versioning]: https://semver.org/
  [upgrade to the next major version]: upgrade.md
  [Markdown]: https://python-markdown.github.io/
  [Pygments]: https://pygments.org/
  [Python Markdown Extensions]: https://facelessuser.github.io/pymdown-extensions/
  [Using Python's pip to Manage Your Projects' Dependencies]: https://realpython.com/what-is-pip/

### with docker

The official [Docker image] is a great way to get up and running in a few
minutes, as it comes with all dependencies pre-installed. Open up a terminal
and pull the image with:

=== "Latest"

    ```
    docker pull squidfunk/mkdocs-material
    ```

=== "9.x"

    ```
    docker pull squidfunk/mkdocs-material:9
    ```

The `mkdocs` executable is provided as an entry point and `serve` is the
default command. If you're not familiar with Docker don't worry, we have you
covered in the following sections.

The following plugins are bundled with the Docker image:

- [mkdocs-minify-plugin]
- [mkdocs-redirects]

  [Docker image]: https://hub.docker.com/r/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/
  [mkdocs-minify-plugin]: https://github.com/byrnereese/mkdocs-minify-plugin
  [mkdocs-redirects]: https://github.com/datarobot/mkdocs-redirects

???+ warning

    The Docker container is intended for local previewing purposes only and
    is not suitable for deployment. This is because the web server used by
    MkDocs for live previews is not designed for production use and may have
    security vulnerabilities.

??? question "How to add plugins to the Docker image?"

    Material for MkDocs only bundles selected plugins in order to keep the size
    of the official image small. If the plugin you want to use is not included,
    you can add them easily:

    === "Material for MkDocs"

        Create a `Dockerfile` and extend the official image:

        ``` Dockerfile title="Dockerfile"
        FROM squidfunk/mkdocs-material
        RUN pip install mkdocs-macros-plugin
        RUN pip install mkdocs-glightbox
        ```

    === "Insiders"

        Clone or fork the Insiders repository, and create a file called
        `user-requirements.txt` in the root of the repository. Then, add the
        plugins that should be installed to the file, e.g.:

        ``` txt title="user-requirements.txt"
        mkdocs-macros-plugin
        mkdocs-glightbox
        ```

    Next, build the image with the following command:

    ```
    docker build -t squidfunk/mkdocs-material .
    ```

    The new image will have additional packages installed and can be used
    exactly like the official image.

### with git

Material for MkDocs can be directly used from [GitHub] by cloning the
repository into a subfolder of your project root which might be useful if you
want to use the very latest version:

```
git clone https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material.git
```

Next, install the theme and its dependencies with:

```
pip install -e mkdocs-material
```

  [GitHub]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material

Commit message:

docs(getting started): also mention podman

docs/getting-started.md, after:

# Getting started

Material for MkDocs is a powerful documentation framework on top of [MkDocs],
a static site generator for project documentation.[^1] If you're familiar with
Python, you can install Material for MkDocs with [`pip`][pip], the Python
package manager. If not, we recommend using [`docker`][docker].

  [^1]:
    In 2016, Material for MkDocs started out as a simple theme for MkDocs, but
    over the course of several years, it's now much more than that – with the
    many built-in plugins, settings, and countless customization abilities,
    Material for MkDocs is now one of the simplest and most powerful frameworks
    for creating documentation for your project.

  [MkDocs]: https://www.mkdocs.org
  [pip]: #with-pip
  [docker]: #with-docker

## Installation

### with pip <small>recommended</small> { #with-pip data-toc-label="with pip" }

Material for MkDocs is published as a [Python package] and can be installed with
`pip`, ideally by using a [virtual environment]. Open up a terminal and install
Material for MkDocs with:

=== "Latest"

    ``` sh
    pip install mkdocs-material
    ```

=== "9.x"

    ``` sh
    pip install mkdocs-material=="9.*" # (1)!
    ```

    1.  Material for MkDocs uses [semantic versioning][^2], which is why it's a
        good idea to limit upgrades to the current major version.

        This will make sure that you don't accidentally [upgrade to the next
        major version], which may include breaking changes that silently corrupt
        your site. Additionally, you can use `pip freeze` to create a lockfile,
        so builds are reproducible at all times:

        ```
        pip freeze > requirements.txt
        ```

        Now, the lockfile can be used for installation:

        ```
        pip install -r requirements.txt
        ```

  [^2]:
    Note that improvements of existing features are sometimes released as
    patch releases, like for example improved rendering of content tabs, as
    they're not considered to be new features.

This will automatically install compatible versions of all dependencies:
[MkDocs], [Markdown], [Pygments] and [Python Markdown Extensions]. Material for
MkDocs always strives to support the latest versions, so there's no need to
install those packages separately.

---

:fontawesome-brands-youtube:{ style="color: #EE0F0F" }
__[How to set up Material for MkDocs]__ by @james-willett – :octicons-clock-24:
27m – Learn how to create and host a documentation site using Material for
MkDocs on GitHub Pages in a step-by-step guide.

  [How to set up Material for MkDocs]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xlABhbnNrfI

---

!!! tip

    If you don't have prior experience with Python, we recommend reading
    [Using Python's pip to Manage Your Projects' Dependencies], which is a
    really good introduction on the mechanics of Python package management and
    helps you troubleshoot if you run into errors.

  [Python package]: https://pypi.org/project/mkdocs-material/
  [virtual environment]: https://realpython.com/what-is-pip/#using-pip-in-a-python-virtual-environment
  [semantic versioning]: https://semver.org/
  [upgrade to the next major version]: upgrade.md
  [Markdown]: https://python-markdown.github.io/
  [Pygments]: https://pygments.org/
  [Python Markdown Extensions]: https://facelessuser.github.io/pymdown-extensions/
  [Using Python's pip to Manage Your Projects' Dependencies]: https://realpython.com/what-is-pip/

### with docker/Podman

The official [Docker/Podman image] is a great way to get up and running in a few
minutes, as it comes with all dependencies pre-installed. Open up a terminal
and pull the image with:

=== "Latest"

    ```
    docker pull squidfunk/mkdocs-material
    ```
    or
    ```
    podman pull docker.io/squidfunk/mkdocs-material
    ```    

=== "9.x"

    ```
    docker pull squidfunk/mkdocs-material:9
    ```
    or
    ```
    podman pull docker.io/squidfunk/mkdocs-material:9
    ```   

The `mkdocs` executable is provided as an entry point and `serve` is the
default command. If you're not familiar with Docker/Podman don't worry, we have you
covered in the following sections.

The following plugins are bundled with the Docker/Podman image:

- [mkdocs-minify-plugin]
- [mkdocs-redirects]

  [Docker/Podman image]: https://hub.docker.com/r/squidfunk/mkdocs-material/
  [mkdocs-minify-plugin]: https://github.com/byrnereese/mkdocs-minify-plugin
  [mkdocs-redirects]: https://github.com/datarobot/mkdocs-redirects

???+ warning

    The Docker container is intended for local previewing purposes only and
    is not suitable for deployment. This is because the web server used by
    MkDocs for live previews is not designed for production use and may have
    security vulnerabilities.

??? question "How to add plugins to the Docker image?"

    Material for MkDocs only bundles selected plugins in order to keep the size
    of the official image small. If the plugin you want to use is not included,
    you can add them easily:

    === "Material for MkDocs"

        Create a `Dockerfile` and extend the official image:

        ``` Dockerfile title="Dockerfile"
        FROM squidfunk/mkdocs-material
        RUN pip install mkdocs-macros-plugin
        RUN pip install mkdocs-glightbox
        ```

    === "Insiders"

        Clone or fork the Insiders repository, and create a file called
        `user-requirements.txt` in the root of the repository. Then, add the
        plugins that should be installed to the file, e.g.:

        ``` txt title="user-requirements.txt"
        mkdocs-macros-plugin
        mkdocs-glightbox
        ```

    Next, build the image with the following command:

    ```
    docker build -t squidfunk/mkdocs-material .
    ```
    === "Docker"
      ```
      docker build -t squidfunk/mkdocs-material .
      ```

    === "Podman"
      sdfoisdjo

    The new image will have additional packages installed and can be used
    exactly like the official image.

### with git

Material for MkDocs can be directly used from [GitHub] by cloning the
repository into a subfolder of your project root which might be useful if you
want to use the very latest version:

```
git clone https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material.git
```

Next, install the theme and its dependencies with:

```
pip install -e mkdocs-material
```

  [GitHub]: https://github.com/squidfunk/mkdocs-material
