docs/reference/images.md, before:

---
template: overrides/main.html
---

# Images

While images are first-class citizens of Markdown and part of the core syntax, 
it can be difficult to work with them. Material for MkDocs makes working with 
images more comfortable by providing styles for alignment and image captions.

  [1]: https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#images-1

## Configuration

### Attribute List

The [Attribute List][2] extension, which is part of the standard Markdown
library, allows to __add HTML attributes and CSS classes to Markdown elements__,
and can be enabled via `mkdocs.yml`

``` yaml
markdown_extensions:
  - attr_list
```

  [2]: https://python-markdown.github.io/extensions/attr_list/

## Usage

### Image alignment

When the [Attribute List][2] extension is enabled, images can be aligned by
adding the respective alignment directions via the `align` attribute, i.e.
`align=left` or `align=right`

=== "Left"

    _Example_:

    ``` markdown
    ![Placeholder](https://dummyimage.com/600x400/eee/aaa){: align=left }
    ```

    _Result_:

    ![Placeholder](https://dummyimage.com/600x400/f5f5f5/aaaaaa&text=–%20Image%20–){: align=left width=300 }

    Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla et euismod
    nulla. Curabitur feugiat, tortor non consequat finibus, justo purus auctor
    massa, nec semper lorem quam in massa.

=== "Right"

    _Example_:

    ``` markdown
    ![Placeholder](https://dummyimage.com/600x400/eee/aaa){: align=right }
    ```

    _Result_:

    ![Placeholder](https://dummyimage.com/600x400/f5f5f5/aaaaaa&text=–%20Image%20–){: align=right width=300 }

    Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla et euismod
    nulla. Curabitur feugiat, tortor non consequat finibus, justo purus auctor
    massa, nec semper lorem quam in massa.

_If there's insufficient space to render the text next to the image, the image
will stretch to the full width of the viewport, e.g. on mobile viewports._

### Image captions

Sadly, the Markdown syntax doesn't provide native support for image captions,
but it's always possible to resort to HTML. Using `figure` and `figcaption`, captions can be added to images.

_Example_:

```html
<figure>
  <img src="https://dummyimage.com/600x400/eee/aaa" width="300" />
  <figcaption>Image caption</figcaption>
</figure>
```

_Result_:
<figure>
  <img src="https://dummyimage.com/600x400/f5f5f5/aaaaaa&text=–%20Image%20–" width="300" />
  <figcaption>Image caption</figcaption>
</figure>

Commit message:

Added documentation for lazy-loading images

docs/reference/images.md, after:

---
template: overrides/main.html
---

# Images

While images are first-class citizens of Markdown and part of the core syntax, 
it can be difficult to work with them. Material for MkDocs makes working with 
images more comfortable by providing styles for alignment and image captions.

  [1]: https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#images-1

## Configuration

### Attribute List

The [Attribute List][2] extension, which is part of the standard Markdown
library, allows to __add HTML attributes and CSS classes to Markdown elements__,
and can be enabled via `mkdocs.yml`

``` yaml
markdown_extensions:
  - attr_list
```

  [2]: https://python-markdown.github.io/extensions/attr_list/

## Usage

### Image alignment

When the [Attribute List][3] extension is enabled, images can be aligned by
adding the respective alignment directions via the `align` attribute, i.e.
`align=left` or `align=right`

=== "Left"

    _Example_:

    ``` markdown
    ![Placeholder](https://dummyimage.com/600x400/eee/aaa){: align=left }
    ```

    _Result_:

    ![Placeholder](https://dummyimage.com/600x400/f5f5f5/aaaaaa&text=–%20Image%20–){: align=left width=300 }

    Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla et euismod
    nulla. Curabitur feugiat, tortor non consequat finibus, justo purus auctor
    massa, nec semper lorem quam in massa.

=== "Right"

    _Example_:

    ``` markdown
    ![Placeholder](https://dummyimage.com/600x400/eee/aaa){: align=right }
    ```

    _Result_:

    ![Placeholder](https://dummyimage.com/600x400/f5f5f5/aaaaaa&text=–%20Image%20–){: align=right width=300 }

    Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla et euismod
    nulla. Curabitur feugiat, tortor non consequat finibus, justo purus auctor
    massa, nec semper lorem quam in massa.

_If there's insufficient space to render the text next to the image, the image
will stretch to the full width of the viewport, e.g. on mobile viewports._

  [3]: #attribute-list

### Image captions

Sadly, the Markdown syntax doesn't provide native support for image captions,
but it's always possible to resort to HTML. Using `figure` and `figcaption`, captions can be added to images.

_Example_:

```html
<figure>
  <img src="https://dummyimage.com/600x400/eee/aaa" width="300" />
  <figcaption>Image caption</figcaption>
</figure>
```

_Result_:
<figure>
  <img src="https://dummyimage.com/600x400/f5f5f5/aaaaaa&text=–%20Image%20–" width="300" />
  <figcaption>Image caption</figcaption>
</figure>


### Image lazy-loading

Modern browsers provide [native support for lazy-loading images][4] through the
`loading` attribute, which degrades to eager-loading in browsers without
support. As with [image alignment][5], if the [Attribute List][3] extension is
enabled, images can be lazy-loaded by adding `loading=lazy`.

_Example_:

``` markdown
![Placeholder](https://dummyimage.com/600x400/eee/aaa){: loading=lazy }
```

_Result_:

![Placeholder](https://dummyimage.com/600x400/f5f5f5/aaaaaa&text=–%20Image%20–){: loading=lazy width=300 }

  [4]: https://caniuse.com/#feat=loading-lazy-attr
  [5]: #image-alignment
